add markdown version of blog for real-time data lakes (#166)
vendia/blog: posts/2022-08-03-understanding-real-time-data-lakes.md

The flexibility of a data lake means you can load first, think later. _Any_ data can be loaded into your data store. This flexibility removes the burden of needing to know your data or the questions you want to ask of your data before you acquire it. Data stores that require transformation prior to loading will cause information loss, either in data dropped from errors or information contained in the raw data that’s cleansed out. 

By allowing all data forms, there’s no need to transform it before storing it; therefore, it can be consumed upon creation, fast. Real-time fast.

What type of data benefits from this flexibility?

* Streaming data is particularly unknown at its genesis (e.g., data from IoT sensors, logs, web clicks, and other event-generating messages). The meat of the data is packed in nested JSON attributes, and the systems that produce this data do so continuously, in high volumes and velocity, i.e., emulating _streams._ This streaming data is fast, large, and undefined.

> Now, let’s not be those “_data lakes solve all your data problems and world hunger_” people. The very act of getting the data to your data lake still adds some unintended lag time if it’s not done with the right real-time data tools (hint: [Vendia](vendia.com/product)). Having a tool in your architecture that can consume this semi-structured data and make it available across all nodes of a cross-cloud architecture enables you to more effectively accomplish Step 1 of a data architecture, “Get your data.” Having that data also be distributed across nodes for use in a data lake, by partners, or by other SaaS applications, tears down the barriers in making it usable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let’s not be those “_data lakes solve all your data problems and world hunger_” people. The very act of getting the data to your data lake still adds some unintended lag time if it’s not done with the right real-time data tools (hint: [Vendia](https://www.vendia.net/product)). Having a tool in your architecture that can consume this semi-structured data and make it available across all nodes of a cross-cloud architecture enables you to more effectively accomplish Step 1 of a data architecture, “Get your data.” Having that data also be distributed across nodes for use in a data lake, by partners, or by other SaaS applications, tears down the barriers in making it usable.

```

In short: 

* A data lake, consuming data without limitation, requires a schema-on-read approach to add definition when using the data. (Ex: Our home, organized by function and frequency).
* A data warehouse, requiring data to be structured, requires a schema-on-write approach to add definition upon storing it. (Ex: The use of items across our homes into outfits).

Let’s reiterate this point for good-measure: Proper holistic data architectures better position us to use our data.

### Data lake use cases

A data lake is a widely accepted staple in any complete data architecture. Any industry that has more than an inch of data can benefit from incorporating data lakes into the overall data architecture given the value for access to real-time heterogeneous data. For example: 

* Airlines with semi-structured ticket, passenger, and flight information in nested JSON objects
* Financial service loan servicing with recurring payments and mortgage file uploads 
* Patient medical records with physician notes, lab images, and prescriptions 

> All these use cases leverage semi-structured data that would rely on data lake technologies. All of which can be stored, and shared real-time, on [Vendia](vendia.net/product).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All these use cases leverage semi-structured data that would rely on data lake technologies. All of which can be stored, and shared real-time, on [Vendia](https://www.vendia.net/product).

```
